Thermodynamics
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Annotated color version of the original 1824 Carnot heat engine showing the hot body (boiler), working body (system, steam), and cold body (water), the letters labeled according to the stopping points in Carnot cycle.
Thermodynamics
Carnot heat engine 2.svg
The classical Carnot heat engine
Branches
[show]
Laws
[show]
Systems
[show]
System properties
[show]
Material properties
[show]
Equations
[show]
Potentials
[show]

    HistoryCulture

[show]
Scientists
[show]

    Wikipedia book Book
    Category Category
    Portal Thermodynamics Portal

    vte

Thermodynamics is the branch of physics that has to do with heat and temperature and their relation to energy and work. The behavior of these quantities is governed by the four laws of thermodynamics, irrespective of the composition or specific properties of the material or system in question. The laws of thermodynamics are explained in terms of microscopic constituents by statistical mechanics. Thermodynamics applies to a wide variety of topics in science and engineering, especially physical chemistry, chemical engineering and mechanical engineering.

Historically, thermodynamics developed out of a desire to increase the efficiency of early steam engines, particularly through the work of French physicist Nicolas Léonard Sadi Carnot (1824) who believed that engine efficiency was the key that could help France win the Napoleonic Wars.[1] Scots-Irish physicist Lord Kelvin was the first to formulate a concise definition of thermodynamics in 1854[2] which stated, "Thermo-dynamics is the subject of the relation of heat to forces acting between contiguous parts of bodies, and the relation of heat to electrical agency."

The initial application of thermodynamics to mechanical heat engines was extended early on to the study of chemical compounds and chemical reactions. Chemical thermodynamics studies the nature of the role of entropy in the process of chemical reactions and has provided the bulk of expansion and knowledge of the field.[3][4][5][6][7][8][9][10][11] Other formulations of thermodynamics emerged in the following decades. Statistical thermodynamics, or statistical mechanics, concerned itself with statistical predictions of the collective motion of particles from their microscopic behavior. In 1909, Constantin Carathéodory presented a purely mathematical approach to the field in his axiomatic formulation of thermodynamics, a description often referred to as geometrical thermodynamics.
Contents

    1 Introduction
    2 History
    3 Etymology
    4 Branches of thermodynamics
        4.1 Classical thermodynamics
        4.2 Statistical mechanics
        4.3 Chemical thermodynamics
        4.4 Equilibrium thermodynamics
    5 Laws of thermodynamics
    6 System models
    7 States and processes
    8 Instrumentation
    9 Conjugate variables
    10 Potentials
    11 Applied fields
    12 See also
        12.1 Lists and timelines
    13 References
    14 Further reading
    15 External links

Introduction

A description of any thermodynamic system employs the four laws of thermodynamics that form an axiomatic basis. The first law specifies that energy can be exchanged between physical systems as heat and work.[12] The second law defines the existence of a quantity called entropy, that describes the direction, thermodynamically, that a system can evolve and quantifies the state of order of a system and that can be used to quantify the useful work that can be extracted from the system.[13]

In thermodynamics, interactions between large ensembles of objects are studied and categorized. Central to this are the concepts of the thermodynamic system and its surroundings. A system is composed of particles, whose average motions define its properties, and those properties are in turn related to one another through equations of state. Properties can be combined to express internal energy and thermodynamic potentials, which are useful for determining conditions for equilibrium and spontaneous processes.

With these tools, thermodynamics can be used to describe how systems respond to changes in their environment. This can be applied to a wide variety of topics in science and engineering, such as engines, phase transitions, chemical reactions, transport phenomena, and even black holes. The results of thermodynamics are essential for other fields of physics and for chemistry, chemical engineering, corrosion engineering, aerospace engineering, mechanical engineering, cell biology, biomedical engineering, materials science, and economics, to name a few.[14][15]

This article is focused mainly on classical thermodynamics which primarily studies systems in thermodynamic equilibrium. Non-equilibrium thermodynamics is often treated as an extension of the classical treatment, but statistical mechanics has brought many advances to that field.
The thermodynamicists representative of the original eight founding schools of thermodynamics. The schools with the most-lasting effect in founding the modern versions of thermodynamics are the Berlin school, particularly as established in Rudolf Clausius’s 1865 textbook The Mechanical Theory of Heat, the Vienna school, with the statistical mechanics of Ludwig Boltzmann, and the Gibbsian school at Yale University, American engineer Willard Gibbs' 1876 On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances launching chemical thermodynamics.[16]
History

The history of thermodynamics as a scientific discipline generally begins with Otto von Guericke who, in 1650, built and designed the world's first vacuum pump and demonstrated a vacuum using his Magdeburg hemispheres. Guericke was driven to make a vacuum in order to disprove Aristotle's long-held supposition that 'nature abhors a vacuum'. Shortly after Guericke, the English physicist and chemist Robert Boyle had learned of Guericke's designs and, in 1656, in coordination with English scientist Robert Hooke, built an air pump.[17] Using this pump, Boyle and Hooke noticed a correlation between pressure, temperature, and volume. In time, Boyle's Law was formulated, which states that pressure and volume are inversely proportional. Then, in 1679, based on these concepts, an associate of Boyle's named Denis Papin built a steam digester, which was a closed vessel with a tightly fitting lid that confined steam until a high pressure was generated.

Later designs implemented a steam release valve that kept the machine from exploding. By watching the valve rhythmically move up and down, Papin conceived of the idea of a piston and a cylinder engine. He did not, however, follow through with his design. Nevertheless, in 1697, based on Papin's designs, engineer Thomas Savery built the first engine, followed by Thomas Newcomen in 1712. Although these early engines were crude and inefficient, they attracted the attention of the leading scientists of the time.

The fundamental concepts of heat capacity and latent heat, which were necessary for the development of thermodynamics, were developed by Professor Joseph Black at the University of Glasgow, where James Watt was employed as an instrument maker. Black and Watt performed experiments together, but it was Watt who conceived the idea of the external condenser which resulted in a large increase in steam engine efficiency.[18] Drawing on all the previous work led Sadi Carnot, the "father of thermodynamics", to publish Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire (1824), a discourse on heat, power, energy and engine efficiency. The book outlined the basic energetic relations between the Carnot engine, the Carnot cycle, and motive power. It marked the start of thermodynamics as a modern science.[10]

The first thermodynamic textbook was written in 1859 by William Rankine, originally trained as a physicist and a civil and mechanical engineering professor at the University of Glasgow.[19] The first and second laws of thermodynamics emerged simultaneously in the 1850s, primarily out of the works of William Rankine, Rudolf Clausius, and William Thomson (Lord Kelvin).

The foundations of statistical thermodynamics were set out by physicists such as James Clerk Maxwell, Ludwig Boltzmann, Max Planck, Rudolf Clausius and J. Willard Gibbs.

During the years 1873-76 the American mathematical physicist Josiah Willard Gibbs published a series of three papers, the most famous being On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances,[3] in which he showed how thermodynamic processes, including chemical reactions, could be graphically analyzed, by studying the energy, entropy, volume, temperature and pressure of the thermodynamic system in such a manner, one can determine if a process would occur spontaneously.[20] Also Pierre Duhem in the 19th century wrote about chemical thermodynamics.[4] During the early 20th century, chemists such as Gilbert N. Lewis, Merle Randall,[5] and E. A. Guggenheim[6][7] applied the mathematical methods of Gibbs to the analysis of chemical processes.
Etymology

The etymology of thermodynamics has an intricate history.[21] It was first spelled in a hyphenated form as an adjective (thermo-dynamic) and from 1854 to 1868 as the noun thermo-dynamics to represent the science of generalized heat engines.[21]

American biophysicist Donald Haynie claims that thermodynamics was coined in 1840 from the Greek root θέρμη therme, meaning heat and δύναμις dynamis, meaning power.[22] However, this etymology has been cited as unlikely.[21]

Pierre Perrot claims that the term thermodynamics was coined by James Joule in 1858 to designate the science of relations between heat and power,[10] however, Joule never used that term, but used instead the term perfect thermo-dynamic engine in reference to Thomson's 1849[23] phraseology.[21]

By 1858, thermo-dynamics, as a functional term, was used in William Thomson's paper "An Account of Carnot's Theory of the Motive Power of Heat."[23]
Branches of thermodynamics

The study of thermodynamical systems has developed into several related branches, each using a different fundamental model as a theoretical or experimental basis, or applying the principles to varying types of systems.
Classical thermodynamics

Classical thermodynamics is the description of the states of thermodynamic systems at near-equilibrium, that uses macroscopic, measurable properties. It is used to model exchanges of energy, work and heat based on the laws of thermodynamics. The qualifier classical reflects the fact that it represents the first level of understanding of the subject as it developed in the 19th century and describes the changes of a system in terms of macroscopic empirical (large scale, and measurable) parameters. A microscopic interpretation of these concepts was later provided by the development of statistical mechanics.
Statistical mechanics

Statistical mechanics, also called statistical thermodynamics, emerged with the development of atomic and molecular theories in the late 19th century and early 20th century, and supplemented classical thermodynamics with an interpretation of the microscopic interactions between individual particles or quantum-mechanical states. This field relates the microscopic properties of individual atoms and molecules to the macroscopic, bulk properties of materials that can be observed on the human scale, thereby explaining classical thermodynamics as a natural result of statistics, classical mechanics, and quantum theory at the microscopic level.
Thermodynamics navigation image.svg
Chemical thermodynamics

Chemical thermodynamics is the study of the interrelation of energy with chemical reactions or with a physical change of state within the confines of the laws of thermodynamics.
Equilibrium thermodynamics

Equilibrium thermodynamics is the systematic study of transfers of matter and energy in systems as they pass from one state of thermodynamic equilibrium to another. The term 'thermodynamic equilibrium' indicates a state of balance. In an equilibrium state there are no unbalanced potentials, or driving forces, between macroscopically distinct parts of the system. A central aim in equilibrium thermodynamics is: given a system in a well-defined initial equilibrium state, and given its surroundings, and given its constitutive walls, to calculate what will be the final equilibrium state of the system after a specified thermodynamic operation has changed its walls or surroundings.

Non-equilibrium thermodynamics is a branch of thermodynamics that deals with systems that are not in thermodynamic equilibrium. Most systems found in nature are not in thermodynamic equilibrium because they are not in stationary states, and are continuously and discontinuously subject to flux of matter and energy to and from other systems. The thermodynamic study of non-equilibrium systems requires more general concepts than are dealt with by equilibrium thermodynamics. Many natural systems still today remain beyond the scope of currently known macroscopic thermodynamic methods.
Laws of thermodynamics
Main article: Laws of thermodynamics

Thermodynamics is principally based on a set of four laws which are universally valid when applied to systems that fall within the constraints implied by each. In the various theoretical descriptions of thermodynamics these laws may be expressed in seemingly differing forms, but the most prominent formulations are the following:

    Zeroth law of thermodynamics: If two systems are each in thermal equilibrium with a third, they are also in thermal equilibrium with each other.

This statement implies that thermal equilibrium is an equivalence relation on the set of thermodynamic systems under consideration. Systems are said to be in equilibrium if the small, random exchanges between them (e.g. Brownian motion) do not lead to a net change in energy. This law is tacitly assumed in every measurement of temperature. Thus, if one seeks to decide if two bodies are at the same temperature, it is not necessary to bring them into contact and measure any changes of their observable properties in time.[24] The law provides an empirical definition of temperature and justification for the construction of practical thermometers.

The zeroth law was not initially named as a law of thermodynamics, as its basis in thermodynamical equilibrium was implied in the other laws. The first, second, and third laws had been explicitly stated prior and found common acceptance in the physics community. Once the importance of the zeroth law for the definition of temperature was realized, it was impracticable to renumber the other laws, hence it was numbered the zeroth law.

    First law of thermodynamics: The internal energy of an isolated system is constant.

The first law of thermodynamics is an expression of the principle of conservation of energy. It states that energy can be transformed (changed from one form to another), but cannot be created or destroyed.[25]

The first law is usually formulated by saying that the change in the internal energy of a closed thermodynamic system is equal to the difference between the heat supplied to the system and the amount of work done by the system on its surroundings. It is important to note that internal energy is a state of the system (see Thermodynamic state) whereas heat and work modify the state of the system. In other words, a change of internal energy of a system may be achieved by any combination of heat and work added or removed from the system as long as those total to the change of internal energy. The manner by which a system achieves its internal energy is path independent.

    Second law of thermodynamics: Heat cannot spontaneously flow from a colder location to a hotter location.

The second law of thermodynamics is an expression of the universal principle of decay observable in nature. The second law is an observation of the fact that over time, differences in temperature, pressure, and chemical potential tend to even out in a physical system that is isolated from the outside world. Entropy is a measure of how much this process has progressed. The entropy of an isolated system which is not in equilibrium will tend to increase over time, approaching a maximum value at equilibrium. However, principles guiding systems that are far from equilibrium are still debatable. One of such principles is the maximum entropy production principle.[26][27] It states that non-equilibrium systems behave such a way as to maximize its entropy production.[28]

In classical thermodynamics, the second law is a basic postulate applicable to any system involving heat energy transfer; in statistical thermodynamics, the second law is a consequence of the assumed randomness of molecular chaos. There are many versions of the second law, but they all have the same effect, which is to explain the phenomenon of irreversibility in nature.

    Third law of thermodynamics: As a system approaches absolute zero, all processes cease and the entropy of the system approaches a minimum value.

The third law of thermodynamics is a statistical law of nature regarding entropy and the impossibility of reaching absolute zero of temperature. This law provides an absolute reference point for the determination of entropy. The entropy determined relative to this point is the absolute entropy. Alternate definitions are, "the entropy of all systems and of all states of a system is smallest at absolute zero," or equivalently "it is impossible to reach the absolute zero of temperature by any finite number of processes".

Absolute zero, at which all activity would stop if it were possible to happen, is −273.15 °C (degrees Celsius), or −459.67 °F (degrees Fahrenheit), or 0 K (kelvin), or 0° R (degrees Rankine).
System models
A diagram of a generic thermodynamic system

An important concept in thermodynamics is the thermodynamic system, which is a precisely defined region of the universe under study. Everything in the universe except the system is called the surroundings. A system is separated from the remainder of the universe by a boundary which may be a physical boundary or notional, but which by convention defines a finite volume. Exchanges of work, heat, or matter between the system and the surroundings take place across this boundary.

In practice, the boundary of a system is simply an imaginary dotted line drawn around a volume within which is going to be a change in the internal energy of that volume. Anything that passes across the boundary that effects a change in the internal energy of the system needs to be accounted for in the energy balance equation. The volume can be the region surrounding a single atom resonating energy, such as Max Planck defined in 1900; it can be a body of steam or air in a steam engine, such as Sadi Carnot defined in 1824; it can be the body of a tropical cyclone, such as Kerry Emanuel theorized in 1986 in the field of atmospheric thermodynamics; it could also be just one nuclide (i.e. a system of quarks) as hypothesized in quantum thermodynamics, or the event horizon of a black hole.

Boundaries are of four types: fixed, movable, real, and imaginary. For example, in an engine, a fixed boundary means the piston is locked at its position, within which a constant volume process might occur. If the piston is allowed to move that boundary is movable while the cylinder and cylinder head boundaries are fixed. For closed systems, boundaries are real while for open systems boundaries are often imaginary. In the case of a jet engine, a fixed imaginary boundary might be assumed at the intake of the engine, fixed boundaries along the surface of the case and a second fixed imaginary boundary across the exhaust nozzle.

Generally, thermodynamics distinguishes three classes of systems, defined in terms of what is allowed to cross their boundaries:
Interactions of thermodynamic systems Type of system 	Mass flow 	Work 	Heat
Open 	Green tick 	Green tick 	Green tick
Closed 	Red X 	Green tick 	Green tick
Thermally isolated 	Red X 	Green tick 	Red X
Mechanically isolated 	Red X 	Red X 	Green tick
Isolated 	Red X 	Red X 	Red X

As time passes in an isolated system, internal differences of pressures, densities, and temperatures tend to even out. A system in which all equalizing processes have gone to completion is said to be in a state of thermodynamic equilibrium.

Once in thermodynamic equilibrium, a system's properties are, by definition, unchanging in time. Systems in equilibrium are much simpler and easier to understand than are systems which are not in equilibrium. Often, when analysing a dynamic thermodynamic process, the simplifying assumption is made that each intermediate state in the process is at equilibrium, producing thermodynamic processes which develop so slowly as to allow each intermediate step to be an equilibrium state and are said to be reversible processes.
States and processes

When a system is at equilibrium under a given set of conditions, it is said to be in a definite thermodynamic state. The state of the system can be described by a number of state quantities that do not depend on the process by which the system arrived at its state. They are called intensive variables or extensive variables according to how they change when the size of the system changes. The properties of the system can be described by an equation of state which specifies the relationship between these variables. State may be thought of as the instantaneous quantitative description of a system with a set number of variables held constant.

A thermodynamic process may be defined as the energetic evolution of a thermodynamic system proceeding from an initial state to a final state. It can be described by process quantities. Typically, each thermodynamic process is distinguished from other processes in energetic character according to what parameters, such as temperature, pressure, or volume, etc., are held fixed; Furthermore, it is useful to group these processes into pairs, in which each variable held constant is one member of a conjugate pair.

Several commonly studied thermodynamic processes are:

    Adiabatic process: occurs without loss or gain of energy by heat
    Isenthalpic process: occurs at a constant enthalpy
    Isentropic process: a reversible adiabatic process, occurs at a constant entropy
    Isobaric process: occurs at constant pressure
    Isochoric process: occurs at constant volume (also called isometric/isovolumetric)
    Isothermal process: occurs at a constant temperature
    Steady state process: occurs without a change in the internal energy

Instrumentation

There are two types of thermodynamic instruments, the meter and the reservoir. A thermodynamic meter is any device which measures any parameter of a thermodynamic system. In some cases, the thermodynamic parameter is actually defined in terms of an idealized measuring instrument. For example, the zeroth law states that if two bodies are in thermal equilibrium with a third body, they are also in thermal equilibrium with each other. This principle, as noted by James Maxwell in 1872, asserts that it is possible to measure temperature. An idealized thermometer is a sample of an ideal gas at constant pressure. From the ideal gas law pV=nRT, the volume of such a sample can be used as an indicator of temperature; in this manner it defines temperature. Although pressure is defined mechanically, a pressure-measuring device, called a barometer may also be constructed from a sample of an ideal gas held at a constant temperature. A calorimeter is a device which is used to measure and define the internal energy of a system.

A thermodynamic reservoir is a system which is so large that its state parameters are not appreciably altered when it is brought into contact with the system of interest. When the reservoir is brought into contact with the system, the system is brought into equilibrium with the reservoir. For example, a pressure reservoir is a system at a particular pressure, which imposes that pressure upon the system to which it is mechanically connected. The Earth's atmosphere is often used as a pressure reservoir. If ocean water is used to cool a power plant, the ocean is often a temperature reservoir in the analysis of the power plant cycle.
Conjugate variables
Main article: Conjugate variables

The central concept of thermodynamics is that of energy, the ability to do work. By the First Law, the total energy of a system and its surroundings is conserved. Energy may be transferred into a system by heating, compression, or addition of matter, and extracted from a system by cooling, expansion, or extraction of matter. In mechanics, for example, energy transfer equals the product of the force applied to a body and the resulting displacement.

Conjugate variables are pairs of thermodynamic concepts, with the first being akin to a "force" applied to some thermodynamic system, the second being akin to the resulting "displacement," and the product of the two equalling the amount of energy transferred. The common conjugate variables are:

    Pressure-volume (the mechanical parameters);
    Temperature-entropy (thermal parameters);
    Chemical potential-particle number (material parameters).

Potentials

Thermodynamic potentials are different quantitative measures of the stored energy in a system. Potentials are used to measure the energy changes in systems as they evolve from an initial state to a final state. The potential used depends on the constraints of the system, such as constant temperature or pressure. For example, the Helmholtz and Gibbs energies are the energies available in a system to do useful work when the temperature and volume or the pressure and temperature are fixed, respectively.

The five most well known potentials are:
Name 	Symbol 	Formula 	Natural variables
Internal energy 	U {\displaystyle U} U 	∫ ( T d S − p d V + ∑ i μ i d N i ) {\displaystyle \int (T{\text{d}}S-p{\text{d}}V+\sum _{i}\mu _{i}{\text{d}}N_{i})} \int ( T \text{d}S - p \text{d}V + \sum_i \mu_i \text{d}N_i ) 	S , V , { N i } {\displaystyle S,V,\{N_{i}\}} S, V, \{N_i\}
Helmholtz free energy 	F {\displaystyle F} F 	U − T S {\displaystyle U-TS} U-TS 	T , V , { N i } {\displaystyle T,V,\{N_{i}\}} T, V, \{N_i\}
Enthalpy 	H {\displaystyle H} H 	U + p V {\displaystyle U+pV} U+pV 	S , p , { N i } {\displaystyle S,p,\{N_{i}\}} S, p, \{N_i\}
Gibbs free energy 	G {\displaystyle G} G 	U + p V − T S {\displaystyle U+pV-TS} U+pV-TS 	T , p , { N i } {\displaystyle T,p,\{N_{i}\}} T, p, \{N_i\}
Landau Potential (Grand potential) 	Ω {\displaystyle \Omega } \Omega , Φ G {\displaystyle \Phi _{\text{G}}} \Phi_\text{G} 	U − T S − {\displaystyle U-TS-} U - T S - ∑ i {\displaystyle \sum _{i}\,} \sum_i\, μ i N i {\displaystyle \mu _{i}N_{i}} \mu_i N_i 	T , V , { μ i } {\displaystyle T,V,\{\mu _{i}\}} T, V, \{\mu_i\}

where T {\displaystyle T} T is the temperature, S {\displaystyle S} S the entropy, p {\displaystyle p} p the pressure, V {\displaystyle V} V the volume, μ {\displaystyle \mu } \mu the chemical potential, N {\displaystyle N} N the number of particles in the system, and i {\displaystyle i} i is the count of particles types in the system.

Thermodynamic potentials can be derived from the energy balance equation applied to a thermodynamic system. Other thermodynamic potentials can also be obtained through Legendre transformation.
Applied fields

    Atmospheric thermodynamics
    Biological thermodynamics
    Black hole thermodynamics
    Chemical thermodynamics
    Classical thermodynamics
    Equilibrium thermodynamics
    Industrial ecology (re: Exergy)
    Maximum entropy thermodynamics
    Non-equilibrium thermodynamics
    Philosophy of thermal and statistical physics
    Psychrometrics
    Quantum thermodynamics
    Statistical thermodynamics
    Thermoeconomics

See also

    iconPhysics portal

    Thermodynamic process path

Lists and timelines

    List of important publications in thermodynamics
    List of textbooks in statistical mechanics
    List of thermal conductivities
    List of thermodynamic properties
    Table of thermodynamic equations
    Timeline of thermodynamics

References

Clausius, Rudolf (1850). On the Motive Power of Heat, and on the Laws which can be deduced from it for the 'Theory of Heat'. Poggendorff's Annalen der Physik, LXXIX (Dover Reprint). ISBN 978-0-486-59065-3.
William Thomson, LL.D. D.C.L., F.R.S. (1882). Mathematical and Physical Papers. 1. London, Cambridge: C.J. Clay, M.A. & Son, Cambridge University Press. p. 232.
Gibbs, Willard, J. (1874–1878). Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. III. New Haven. pp. 108–248, 343–524.
Duhem, P.M.M. (1886). Le Potential Thermodynamique et ses Applications, Hermann, Paris.
Lewis, Gilbert N.; Randall, Merle (1923). Thermodynamics and the Free Energy of Chemical Substances. McGraw-Hill Book Co. Inc.
Guggenheim, E.A. (1933). Modern Thermodynamics by the Methods of J.W. Gibbs, Methuen, London.
Guggenheim, E.A. (1949/1967). Thermodynamics. An Advanced Treatment for Chemists and Physicists, 1st edition 1949, 5th edition 1967, North-Holland, Amsterdam.
Ilya Prigogine, I. & Defay, R., translated by D.H. Everett (1954). Chemical Thermodynamics. Longmans, Green & Co., London. Includes classical non-equilibrium thermodynamics.
Enrico Fermi (1956). Thermodynamics. Courier Dover Publications. pp. (ix). ISBN 978-0486603612. OCLC 230763036.
Perrot, Pierre (1998). A to Z of Thermodynamics. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-856552-9. OCLC 123283342.
Clark, John, O.E. (2004). The Essential Dictionary of Science. Barnes & Noble Books. ISBN 978-0-7607-4616-5. OCLC 58732844.
Van Ness, H.C. (1983) [1969]. Understanding Thermodynamics. Dover Publications, Inc. ISBN 9780486632773. OCLC 8846081.
Dugdale, J.S. (1998). Entropy and its Physical Meaning. Taylor and Francis. ISBN 978-0-7484-0569-5. OCLC 36457809.
Smith, J.M.; Van Ness, H.C.; Abbott, M.M. (2005). Introduction to Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics. Journal of Chemical Education. 27. p. 584. Bibcode:1950JChEd..27..584S. doi:10.1021/ed027p584.3. ISBN 978-0-07-310445-4. OCLC 56491111.
Haynie, Donald, T. (2001). Biological Thermodynamics. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-79549-4. OCLC 43993556.
Schools of thermodynamics – EoHT.info.
Partington, J.R. (1989). A Short History of Chemistry. Dover. OCLC 19353301.
The Newcomen engine was improved from 1711 until Watt's work, making the efficiency comparison subject to qualification, but the increase from the 1865 version was on the order of 100%.
Cengel, Yunus A.; Boles, Michael A. (2005). Thermodynamics – an Engineering Approach. McGraw-Hill. ISBN 978-0-07-310768-4.
Gibbs, Willard (1993). The Scientific Papers of J. Willard Gibbs, Volume One: Thermodynamics. Ox Bow Press. ISBN 978-0-918024-77-0. OCLC 27974820.
"Thermodynamics (etymology)". EoHT.info.
Donald T. Haynie (2008). Biological Thermodynamics (2 ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 26.
Kelvin, William T. (1849) "An Account of Carnot's Theory of the Motive Power of Heat – with Numerical Results Deduced from Regnault's Experiments on Steam." Transactions of the Edinburg Royal Society, XVI. January 2.Scanned Copy
Moran, Michael J. and Howard N. Shapiro, 2008. Fundamentals of Engineering Thermodynamics. 6th ed. Wiley and Sons: 16.
"Energy Rules! Energy Conversion and the Laws of Thermodynamics – More About the First and Second Laws". Uwsp.edu. Archived from the original on 5 June 2010. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
Onsager, Lars (1931). "Reciprocal Relations in Irreversible Processes". Phys. Rev. 37 (405): 405–426. Bibcode:1931PhRv...37..405O. doi:10.1103/physrev.37.405.
Ziegler, H. (1983). An Introduction to Thermomechanics. North Holland.

    Belkin, Andrey; et., al. (2015). "Self-Assembled Wiggling Nano-Structures and the Principle of Maximum Entropy Production". Sci. Rep. 5: 8323. Bibcode:2015NatSR...5E8323B. doi:10.1038/srep08323. PMC 4321171. PMID 25662746.

Further reading

    Goldstein, Martin & Inge F. (1993). The Refrigerator and the Universe. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-75325-9. OCLC 32826343. A nontechnical introduction, good on historical and interpretive matters.
    Kazakov, Andrei; Muzny, Chris D.; Chirico, Robert D.; Diky, Vladimir V.; Frenkel, Michael (2008). "Web Thermo Tables – an On-Line Version of the TRC Thermodynamic Tables". Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology. 113 (4): 209–220. doi:10.6028/jres.113.016. ISSN 1044-677X. PMC 4651616. PMID 27096122.
    Gibbs J.W. (1928). The Collected Works of J. Willard Gibbs Thermodynamics. New York: Longmans, Green and Co. Vol. 1, pp. 55–349.
    Guggenheim E.A. (1933). Modern thermodynamics by the methods of Willard Gibbs. London: Methuen & co. ltd.
    Denbigh K. (1981). The Principles of Chemical Equilibrium: With Applications in Chemistry and Chemical Engineering. London: Cambridge University Press.
    Stull, D.R., Westrum Jr., E.F. and Sinke, G.C. (1969). The Chemical Thermodynamics of Organic Compounds. London: John Wiley and Sons, Inc.
    Bazarov I.P. (2010). Thermodynamics: Textbook. St. Petersburg: Lan publishing house. p. 384. ISBN 978-5-8114-1003-3. 5th ed. (in Russian)
    Bawendi Moungi G., Alberty Robert A. and Silbey Robert J. (2004). Physical Chemistry. J. Wiley & Sons, Incorporated.
    Alberty Robert A. (2003). Thermodynamics of Biochemical Reactions. Wiley-Interscience.
    Alberty Robert A. (2006). Biochemical Thermodynamics: Applications of Mathematica. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. ISBN 978-0-471-75798-6.

The following titles are more technical:

    Bejan, Adrian (2016). Advanced Engineering Thermodynamics (4 ed.). Wiley. ISBN 978-1-119-05209-8.
    Cengel, Yunus A., & Boles, Michael A. (2002). Thermodynamics – an Engineering Approach. McGraw Hill. ISBN 978-0-07-238332-4. OCLC 45791449.
    Dunning-Davies, Jeremy (1997). Concise Thermodynamics: Principles and Applications. Horwood Publishing. ISBN 978-1-8985-6315-0. OCLC 36025958.
    Kroemer, Herbert & Kittel, Charles (1980). Thermal Physics. W.H. Freeman Company. ISBN 978-0-7167-1088-2. OCLC 32932988.

External links
	Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Engineering Thermodynamics
	Wikiquote has quotations related to: Thermodynamics

    public domain "Thermodynamics". Encyclopædia Britannica. 26 (11th ed.). 1911. pp. 808–814.
    Thermodynamics Data & Property Calculation Websites
    Thermodynamics Educational Websites
    Thermodynamics at ScienceWorld
    Biochemistry Thermodynamics
    Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics
    Engineering Thermodynamics – A Graphical Approach
    Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics by Richard Fitzpatrick

    vte

Branches of physics

    vte

Heating, ventilation and air conditioning
Categories:

    ThermodynamicsChemical engineeringConcepts in physicsSubfields of physics

Navigation menu

    Not logged in
    Talk
    Contributions
    Create account
    Log in

    Article
    Talk

    Read
    Edit
    View history

Search

    Main page
    Contents
    Featured content
    Current events
    Random article
    Donate to Wikipedia
    Wikipedia store

Interaction

    Help
    About Wikipedia
    Community portal
    Recent changes
    Contact page

Tools

    What links here
    Related changes
    Upload file
    Special pages
    Permanent link
    Page information
    Wikidata item
    Cite this page

Print/export

    Create a book
    Download as PDF
    Printable version

In other projects

    Wikimedia Commons
    Wikiquote

Languages

    العربية
    Español
    हिन्दी
    Interlingua
    Suomi
    Svenska
    اردو
    ייִדיש
    中文

Edit links

    This page was last edited on 20 March 2019, at 13:55 (UTC).
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

    Privacy policy
    About Wikipedia
    Disclaimers
    Contact Wikipedia
    Developers
    Cookie statement
    Mobile view